We all want to live a happy life with
our loved ones,
to take care of the things that are
important to us and to reach our goals
and fulfill our dreams.
To a large extent our ability to achieve
our goals and meet our future needs
depend on how well we manage our money
today, both our income and our expenses.
For this we should regularly review and
balance our expenses and income so that
we don't spend more than we earn and are
able to regularly set aside some money
for things that we may want or need in
the future. The best education for our
children or our own home
or a happy and secure retirement,
but is it that simple? Not really, we need
to be very careful about a clever little
devil called inflation,
it keeps reducing the value of our
income and also keeps eating into our
savings over time.
Inflation is what causes the prices of
everyday items to rise year after year
and the value of our money to keep
reducing over time, all because of
inflation.
So, 10 years later,
a basket of tomatoes would cost much
more than it does today. Or we can say
with the same amount of money we will be
able to buy less tomatoes than we can
today.
Therefore
when we save a part of our income we
must ensure that the interest we earn on
our savings is more than the rate of
inflation.
If inflation is higher than the interest
we earn the value of our money will go
down, and if we keep our savings in cash
at home we won't earn any interest at
all and therefore very soon inflation
would eat away most of our savings.
Keeping a part of our savings in the
bank on the other hand is a good idea,
that way our money is safe and earns an
interest to help us beat inflation.
With careful budgeting and financial
planning
we can fulfill all our goals and dreams
and also stay ahead of inflation.